#summary How to Launch the PRIDE Converter 2 Tool Suite

= Introduction =

This page will explain how to obtain and start the PRIDE Converter 2 Tool Suite

= Details =

== Download ==

Please download the latest release of the PRIDE Converter toolsuite from the [http://code.google.com/p/pride-converter-2/downloads/list Downloads] section.

== Unpack == 

The downloaded file will be a gzipped tarball that can be extracted using various tools (Winzip, Winrar, Stuffit Expander, tar, etc). When the archive is extracted, 2 files and one directory will be created:

{{{
lib/
pride-converter-2.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
converter.properties
}}}

== Start ==

The PRIDE Converter 2 tools can work in both a command-line mode or in a full graphical user interface mode.

To start in command-line mode and display the CLI usage, you will need to open a shell/console/terminal and type the following command:

{{{
rcote@bobble:~/pride-converter$ java -jar pride-converter-2.0-SNAPSHOT.jar -help
}}}

This will result in the following information being displayed:

{{{
Usage: java -jar pride_converter.jar [mode]

PRIDE Converter 2
PRIDE Converter can operate in several different modes.
To launch the graphical mode simply specify no parameters.

The following modes are supported by PRIDE Converter:
   -converter    Launches the PRIDE Converter in convert mode.
                 This mode allows one to convert several search
                 engine result files into the PRIDE XML format.
   -filter       Launches the PRIDE Converter in filter mode.
                 This mode allows one to remove f.e. unidentified
                 spectra or a given set of proteins from an existing
                 PRIDE XML file.
   -merger       Launches PRIDE Converter in merger mode.
                 This mode allows one to merge several PRIDE XML files
                 into a single file.

For mode specific help please use java -jar pride_converter.jar [mode] -help
}}}

*Please note that this assumes that the java executable is installed and in your application path.* If this is not the case, please refer to the [http://java.com/en/download/help/index_installing.xml JAVA Help documentation] on how to install Java on your computer.

To start in graphical, you will need to open a shell/console/terminal and type the following command:

{{{
rcote@bobble:~/pride-converter$ java -jar pride-converter-2.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
}}}

or simply double-click on the pride-converter-2.0-SNAPSHOT.jar file (assuming that jar files are associated with the java executable in your OS).